# DCC888 - Introduction

Name: Vinícius Julião Ramos
ID: 2018054630

## 1.a)
The code was optimized.
Such loop was reduced to a constant answer.

## 1.b)
This optimization is called Loop Unrolling, and since that loop
runs a constant number of iterations, the optimizer can create
100 calls for that sum.
Further, it will be capable to propagate constants in those 100 sum
expressions, finally obtaining the constant 800 as the answer.

## 2.a)
SQL Injection is a vulnerability that involves using SQL Query Inputs to
perform a dangerous operation.
In codes like that, the input `$id` can be exploited to handle a Injected SQL
code, for example, if `$id := 0'; DELETE * FROM 'table' WHERE '1' = '1`, the
whole SQL query will be:

```SQL
SELECT * FROM 'table' WHERE id='0'; DELETE * FROM 'table' WHERE '1' = '1'
```
Then, a `DELETE` operation will be performed.

## 2.b)
Compilers can track the SQL Query inputs and check if such input comes
from an external call, like an API request, and also check if the
inputs are pre-checked before passing it to the query execution.
A possible tool is check if some input comes directly from an external
call, without being manipulated early.

## 3.a)
The bug is a possible overflow of `buf_size`.
If `w` and `h` are large numbers, like $2^7$, then `w*h` will be greater than
$2^8 -1$, that is the maximum value of a `char`.

## 3.b)
There are optimizations that implement code instrumentation, and for those
cases, any arithmetic operation in te program, will be preceded by a
conditional checking.
These checking is responsible for validate the operation before it is
performed and then report if an integer overflow happens in runtime.
However, it is possible to have safe overflow operations, as when a program
performs the operation `mod SIZE`, where `SIZE` is the maximum value of an
integer.
Thus the compiler must identify when an overflow is safe or not.
A largely used approach for this is application of the
*Sub-typing Rules for Safe Integer Operations* that states safe
overflows and potential unsafe ones.
Such rules are used by widespread tools like Google Undefined Behavior
Sanitizer.

In a further solution, it is also possible to avoid unnecessary instrumentation
by granting that an arithmetic operation wont cause overflows.
The *Range Propagation in Topological Order* is used to that task, where
the control flow graph is used to determine strong connected component
for a linear checking of the possible maximum and minimum value an
integer may assume in a program.
Using such maximum and minimum, the compiler can determine if an operation
causes overflow or not.

## 4.1)
The function `diff2` always take the same time to run.
This function checks all pairs that are in the same position
of `pw` and `in`, nad only returns the answer after checking these
8 pairs.
In other hand, `diff1` returns `false` when it finds the first difference
between `pw` and `in`.

## 4.2)
Given the `diff1` code, an adversary can infer that: how long is the time
execution, more close the adversary is to the right password.
So, the adversary can run many guessing attempts and identify how good one of
these attempts are according to the time it takes to run the `diff1` code.

## 4.3)
<!-- TODO: Read the paper and answer:
Again, compilers can be used to prove that the implementation of an algorithm
is - or is not - isochronous [3]. Provide a general idea on how this can be
accomplished.-->
https://citeseerx.ist.psu.edu/viewdoc/download?doi=10.1.1.467.5745&rep=rep1&type=pdf
