# 1st Exercises List

## Chapter 1

1. ow are network computers different from traditional personal computers?
  Describe some usage scenarios in which it is advantageous to use network
  computers.\
  **Asnwer:** Network computers are based to store data, high processing, and 
  hard computation only in a powerful computer.
  In other hand, tradicional personal computers are designed to work locally,
  since the tradicional computers were developed when internet was slow and
  inefficient.
  This computers depends on the network (majority the Internet) to allow the
  well usage, nowadays the only tool used is the browser, then network
  computers are developed to allow this kind of usage, an it reduces the cost,
  the wight and improve the portability of this equipment.

2. Under what circumstances would a user be better off using a timesharing
  system rather than a PC or a single-user workstation?\
  **Answer**: When multiple users want to use the same computer, a time sharing
  system is the solution.
  PC or single-user workstation runs a sigle process per time, otherwise, when
  multiple process must be run "at the same time" a timesharing system know how
  to deal to run each process without processing loss.
  Other circumstance is for interactive programs, that need the mouse, or the
  keyboard "talk" with the user.
  In this case, timesharing systems switch among process allowing I/O
  operations while process others software data.

3. Describe a mechanism for enforcing memory protection in order to prevent a
  program from modifying the memory associated with other programs.\
  **Answer**: The mechanism keeps a list of memory spaces for each process.
  Then, if a second process tries to access some space that does not belong
  to the second one, this mechanism must deny the access.

4. Discuss, with examples, how the problem of maintaining coherence of cached
  data manifests itself in the following processing environments:
  -  Single-processor systems\
    **Answer**: For this environment, cache is not a problem.
    Since it has only one processor, consequently one cache space, when some
    data is cached, the same can be access late.

  - Multiprocessor systems\
    **Answer**: With multiprocessor systems, each processor keep an own cache.
    Suppose a multiprocessor with 2 processors (X and Y) and a process A. 
    If A is executed firstly in X, probably A cache some data in X cache
    memory.
    Then, if Y calls A to executed, it's necessary duplicate the cache from A,
    stored in X.

  - Distributed systems\
  **Answer**: In that case, the same file is stored in various different
  computers (copies).
  When one copy is accessed and changed, all other copies must be changed too.

5. Describe the differences between symmetric and asymmetric multiprocessing.
  What are three advantages and one disadvantage of multiprocessor systems?\
  **Answer**: Symmetric multiprocessing demands a *boss processor* to assign
  tasks to the *worker processors*.
  But about asymmetric, the all processos are equals among themselves.
  The advantages are related to execute process in parallel, but it generate
  synchronization problems, and this is the disadvantage.

6. What is the purpose of interrupts?
  What are the differences between a trap and an interrupt?
  Can traps be generated intentionally by a user program?
  If so, for what purpose?\
  **Answer**: Operating systems are interrupt based, it means that OS always
  are waiting for some event.
  When a OS catch an event, it responds to the correct user that the process
  raised an interruption.
  Then, the purpose of interruptions is drive the operating system for
  responding the users or process.
  Traps are also interrupts, but in that case it is an interrupt raised by the
  process.
  Yes, a trap can be generated by an user: when the user demands the OS to 
  perform some operation.

7. Consider an SMP system similar to what is shown in Figure 1.6.
  Illustrate with an example how data residing in memory could in fact have two
  different values in each of the local caches.\
  **Answer**: Suppose the integer value $1$ inside the memory, in the address
  0xFF0343D2.
  The CPU$_0$ calls that value and change it to 2, and this value is cached.
  Lastly the CPU$_1$ calls the value inside the position 0xFF0343D2, changing
  to 3.
  Since either CPU$_0$ nor CPU$_1$ stored this value in memory, now both cache
  are inconsistent.

## Chapter 2

1. What are the five major activities of an operating system with regard to
  file management?\
  **Answer**: creating and deleting files, creating and deleting directories
  to organize files, supporting primitives for manipulating files directories,
  mapping files onto secondary stage, backing up files on stable storage media.

2. Would it be possible for the user to develop a new command interpreter using
  the system-call interface provided by the operating system?\
  **Answer**: Yes, as APIs, an user can develop it to make available a set of 
  commands that are translated to system calls.

3. What is the main advantage of the layered approach to system design?
  What are the disadvantages of using the layered approach?\
  **Answer**: The main advantage is the simplicity of construction and
  debugging.
  Since each layer is a independent module, each layer can be constructed and
  debugged separately.
  A disadvantage involves a difficulty of define appropriately the design of a
  layer.
  It's thanks to the usage of the lower-level layer, for instance, the storage
  and the memory: the memory layer must be higher than storage, because memory
  uses the storage when the memory is full.
  Other disadvantage is such that layered approach systems tend to be less
  efficient than other types.
  It's possible to observe that when a call of the higher layer occurs, in that
  case all other layers will be request until coming the hardware.

4. In what ways is the modular kernel approach similar to the layered approach?
  In what ways does it differ from the layered approach?\
  **Answer**: The similarities are the kernel division in well defined parts
  and the protected interfaces.
  Although, modular kernel is more flexible, allowing a kernel module to call
  another kernel module.

5. What are the advantages and disadvantages of using the same system call
  interface for manipulating both files and devices?\
  **Answer**: Given the similarity of I/O devices and files, it makes the
  operations easier.
  But to do that, the OS must allow unmanaged access to devices, and there is
  the risk of deadlocks.

6. Why do some systems store the operating system in firmware, while others
  store it on disk?\
  **Answer**: Sometimes it's necessary changing the bootstrap code, thus for
  that cases, installing the OS in the ROM demands changing this hardware
  when the bootstrap code needs changing.
  The solution is store this code (that is a part of the OS code) within an
  EPROM which can be changed.
  In short, EPROM stores the firmware of a system.


## Chapter 3

1. Consider the RPC mechanism.
  Describe the undesirable consequences that could arise from not enforcing
  either the "at most once" or "exactly once" semantic.
  Describe possible uses for a mechanism that has neither of these guarantees.
  **Answer**: